Hey Jazmín,

2021 has been off to a good start!
I mentioned last time that I was worried about how my exams would go because of all the anxiety I was dealing with at the time.
Fortunately, it didn't affect me this time, and since then I have experienced almost no anxiety!
The conference also went well (despite it being online), and the paper has been published, so now I am officially a scientist haha.
I've also been having zoom meetings with scientists from Japanese universities, and as it stands I might go to Tokyo University this fall.
Fingers crossed!

A new semester has started, and this time I'm working on detecting image manipulation using machine learning.
I honestly cannot wait to try it out on instagram photos, to see just how many people photoshop themselves on there.
That said, I'm very tired of school at the moment.
My courses are very tough this semester, and we have exams every three weeks.
I'm really looking forward to this year's summer break, especially considering how tough 2020's summer was for me.

My amazing Japanese teacher has started providing online Japanese classes, along with all sorts of fun events.
I've participated in two "Nomikai"s so far, where my teacher invites some Japanese people that are interested in Denmark and some of us Danes interested in Japan, and then we talk and chill on Zoom.
It's been a little challenging speaking Japanese for a few hours straight, but it's been incredibly helpful and fun!
It turned out that my Japanese teacher also enjoys singing, and so we have started an online karaoke club.
We have four members now, and the first session will be in the upcoming week.
As I suspect they are much better singers than I am, I've been practising a lot lately.
Perhaps a bit too much, as my throat has been sore here and there.
As I've never followed any singing guides/lessons, my technique is very bad.
It has had me considering taking online vocal lessons too, but that's a bit intimidating haha.
Anyway, these things have really helped me stay in good spirits throughout this lockdown.

Health concerns are nothing to be ashamed of, yet we can't help but feel that way sometimes.
I wish you all the best and sincerely hope everything's fine!
I remember how guilty I felt when I destroyed my thumb.
For months, I couldn't think of anything but everything I could've done differently.
In the end, it made me a more well-rounded individual.
Hopefully, this adversity will help you in some ways, but it is definitely something to take seriously.
One of the dangers of tumors is that many people don't notice them before they are a problem, so you've already done great for yourself.
You have nothing to be ashamed of!

Also, congratulations on doing well on your exams in German!
Continue like this and you'll be fluent in no time!
I think your resolutions are great, as they have just the right amount of ambition; They are attainable if you put in the work.
Take it slow, but be consistent is my advice.
I've been getting a bit out of shape lately, as my usual routines (going to the gym, riding a bike to university and fencing) have been shut down.
Just now have I started working out using what I have.
We have to start somewhere, right?

I haven't talked much to the girl lately, but we are still friends.
We turned out to be a bit too different I think.
But hey, that's life!

On a positive note, my mother's been well.
She's been vaccinated twice already, as she's in the healthcare industry.
A few weeks ago, she had shoulder surgery, but it went well and she's had a speedy recovery.

It sounds very serious, all of this about Argentina's economy.
Though Denmark's economy has also been hit hard by the lockdowns, I think we will recover fast.
Our economy is quite robust I think.
Though everything seems a bit grim now, I think the global economy will grow fast for a few years when this pandemic has settled, and so we will recover quickly.
It has been this way after most negative global historical events.
Remember how much the global economy grew after the two world wars after all!

I hope your visits to the dentist's office went well, I've had two wisdom teeth pulled out myself.
Also, were you able to go to the beach?
While it's been -15 degrees celsius at some point here, I've also been swimming in the fjord at my dorm.
We had to make a hole in the ice first haha.
Congratulations on a successful baptism as well!
It's been very difficult to celebrate things during this pandemic, so I'm glad you were finally able to get it done.

Also, thanks for the photos!
I'm always super impressed by your drawings.
The hair is so life-like. 

I've attached some photos and videos of the changing seasons at my dorm.
Also some short videos of my karaoke practise (in which I forget the lyrics most of the time, so yea karaoke's going to go great haha).
I've been working on highschool musical songs a tiny bit, as my friend and I will do a duet haha.
Oh yea, I also found some coats of arms from my ancestry!

That's all for today,
I apologise for the wait!
I'll be looking forward to your response as always!
Best regards,
Thomas.